**Political Science 3390 -- The Politics of AI**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Course Title:**    The Politics of AI
  -------------------- --------------------------------------------------
  **Day:**             Thursdays

  **Instructor:**      Dan Bousfield

  **Office Hours:**    Wednesday 11:00am-1:00pm via zoom - link in
                       Brightspace

  **Email:**           dbousfie@uwo.ca

  **Telephone:**       289-620-6665 text only

  **Lectures**         See your timetable
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

## Prerequisite(s):

Unless you have either the requisites for this course or written special
permission from your Dean to enroll in it, you may be removed from this
course and it will be deleted from your record. This decision may not be
appealed. You will receive no adjustment to your fees in the event that
you are dropped from a course for failing to have the necessary
prerequisites.

## Introduction: 

This course examines the intersection of technology with political
dynamics, focusing on critical areas such as ethics in AI, algorithmic
bias, data manipulation, online activism, big data, gender, race and
identity online, digital security, environmental tech, labor in the
digital economy, genetics and digital health, privacy vs. surveillance,
hybrid warfare, and digital diplomacy. It seeks to understand how these
technological aspects impact policy, democracy, and societal norms.
Through this lens, the course offers insights into the evolving role of
AI in shaping public policy, ethical considerations, and regulatory
responses.

## Learning Objectives:

1\. Identify the relevant actors involved in the development,
governance, and regulation of key political technologies.

2\. Evaluate significant events or issues related to the impact of
technology on politics.

3\. Gain historical context on technological innovations and their
subsequent regulation.

4\. Analyze the impact of technology on public policy, focusing on
ethical considerations and regulatory responses to digital challenges.

5\. Critically evaluate the role of AI tools, such as large language
models (LLMs), in academic and professional contexts.

6\. Develop and justify frameworks for the ethical and effective
integration of LLMs in writing and research.

7\. Design and apply self-assessment rubrics to academic work, ensuring
accountability and alignment between planning and execution.

8\. Engage with academic literature to inform decisions about the use
and assessment of AI tools in research and writing.

## Course Materials

All readings are available on-line, on the university online library
reserve, or through the library search. AI tools <https://ai.uwo.ca/>

**Methods of Evaluation**

## 

+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Option 1                        | Option 2                           |
+=================================+====================================+
| Weekly Participation 25%        | Weekly Participation 25%           |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Term Assignment 25% - Primarily | Term Assignment 25% - Primarily    |
| due by the end of week 7.       | due by the end of week 7.          |
|                                 |                                    |
| Sign up by the end of week 3    | Sign up by the end of week 3       |
| (requires documentation for     | (requires documentation for        |
| academic consideration).        | academic consideration).           |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Essay or Policy Analysis 35% -  | Summative Assignment 10% -- Due at |
| Due at the end of Week 10       | the end of Week 12 (December 10,   |
|                                 | 2025, 11:59 PM. Minimum 2500 words |
| (Nov 26, 2025, 11:59 PM).       | required.                          |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+
| Exam 15% - Online or in-person  | Exam 40% -- In person examination  |
| exam during exam period         | only                               |
+---------------------------------+------------------------------------+

## For all written work in this course: 

This course requires a minimum of 2500 words of academic prose to meet
university requirements for 3000-level half courses.

## Paragraph structure 

Basic paragraph structure is an important part of writing. Failure to
use basic paragraph structure will result in repetitive, unstructured,
illogical arguments. Paragraphs help to structure our thought, our
ability to make claims and provide a framework for writing. The topic
sentence and concluding sentence of each paragraph should be in your own
voice (no direct references, quotations or citations). A basic paragraph
structure should follow this template:

- Topic/introduction, in one or two sentences and has an argumentative
  sentence that avoids description, and has a clear political thesis

- Major point with factual evidence, one or two sentences (one sentence
  with ***relevant*** academic citation and one sentence explaining the
  relevance in your own words, demonstrating individual voice and
  reflection)

- Major point with factual evidence, one or two sentences (one sentence
  with ***relevant*** academic citation and one sentence explaining the
  relevance in your own words, demonstrating individual voice and
  reflection)

- Major point with factual evidence, one or two sentences (one sentence
  with ***relevant*** academic citation and one sentence explaining the
  relevance in your own words, demonstrating individual voice and
  reflection)

- Summarizing sentence of overall significance to the overarching thesis
  of the paper and

- Concluding sentence which restates topic sentence and bridges to next
  paragraph.

Failure to use basic paragraph structure throughout your work will
result in the inability to receive full marks.

These paragraph formatting requirements are not arbitrary. There is a
specific reason that I want you to use peer-reviewed academic sources, a
MINIMUM of THREE DIFFERENT ACADEMIC SOURCES per paragraph. WHY?

- First, the difference between opinion and argument is the provision of
  evidence.

- Second, for an academic argument to have veracity, it needs to have an
  arm\'s length perspective, it needs to draw on peer-reviewed sources
  because individual interpretation is prone to error.

- Next, if we have more than one academic source per paragraph if one of
  those sources is weak or questionable the other two will supplement
  it.

- Moreover, multiple sources prevent summary or representation of
  someone else\'s ideas as your own, if you must interpret multiple data
  sources.

- Finally, academic sources have explanatory frameworks that link them
  to underlying theoretical concepts and ideas. News sources, data
  points, and journalism provide evidence without analysis, academic
  work provides analysis with evidence. If you don\'t have that
  consistently throughout your writing, you are going to run into
  problems of the veracity of your claims because they lack
  substantiation.

If any of your sentences, paragraphs, or quotations lack a specific
foundation, you will not receive credit for those submissions.

Lack of data is a lack of foundation. In the era of LLMs, inaccurate
citations will be treated as no citation at all. LLMs routinely
summarize sources without accessing the underlying data. **Failure to
directly quote sources with quotation marks followed by an explanation
in your own words will constitute a lack of sufficient citation.**
**Paraphrasing is no longer sufficient justification for including a
citation**; you must use specific and precise language, including nouns
(specific people, places, and things), as generalized summaries of
sources are often hallucinated, inaccurate, and incomplete when
suggested by LLMs.\
\
Weasel words---vague or evasive language that obscures
meaning---undermine thesis-driven political arguments by avoiding clear
claims and weakening the connection between evidence and position. As
Theodore Roosevelt warned in 1916, they drain content from statements
like a weasel empties an egg: the form remains, but the substance is
gone. In political science, precision matters. Ambiguity dilutes
argument.

Why are weasel words proliferating?

- LLMs avoid strong claims to minimize liability, leading to weasel
  words.

- They replicate academic tone through pattern-matching, not reasoning,
  producing vague phrasing.

- They favor generalizations to ensure broad applicability and avoid
  exclusion.

- They use soft language to evade controversy or implied stance.

- Their training data overrepresents cautious, formulaic academic prose.

- They default to description over argument due to lack of critical
  capacity.

## General information about missed coursework

Students must familiarize themselves with the *University Policy on
Academic Consideration -- Undergraduate Students in First Entry
Programs* posted on the Academic Calendar:

<https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/academic_consideration_Sep24.pdf>,

This policy does not apply to requests for Academic Consideration
submitted for **attempted or completed work**, whether online or in
person.

The policy also does not apply to students experiencing longer-term
impacts on their academic responsibilities. These students should
consult [Accessible
Education](http://academicsupport.uwo.ca/accessible_education/).

For procedures on how to submit Academic Consideration requests, please
see the information posted on the Office of the Registrar's webpage:

<https://registrar.uwo.ca/academics/academic_considerations/>

All requests for Academic Consideration must be made within 48 hours
after the assessment date or submission deadline.

All Academic Consideration requests must include supporting
documentation; however, recognizing that formal documentation may not be
available in some extenuating circumstances, the policy allows students
to make [one]{.underline} Academic Consideration request **without
supporting documentation** in this course. However, the following
assessments are excluded from this, and therefore always require formal
supporting documentation:

Term Assignment

When a student *[mistakenly]{.underline}* submits their
[one]{.underline} allowed Academic Consideration request **without
supporting documentation** for the assessments listed above or those in
the **Coursework with Assessment Flexibility** section below, [the
request cannot be recalled and reapplied]{.underline}. This privilege is
forfeited.

Coursework with Assessment Flexibility

By policy, instructors may deny Academic Consideration requests for the
following assessments with built-in flexibility.

Flexible Completion assignments:

Weekly participation. This course has 12 weekly participation
assignments, and the 10 quizzes with the highest marks are counted
towards your final grade. Should extenuating circumstances arise,
students do not need to request Academic Consideration for the first 2
missed weekly participations. Academic consideration requests will be
denied for the first 2 missed weekly participation assignments.

Religious Accommodation

When conflicts with a religious holiday that requires an absence from
the University or prohibits certain activities, students should request
an accommodation for their absence in writing to the course instructor
and/or the Academic Advising office of their Faculty of Registration.
This notice should be made as early as possible but not later than two
weeks prior to the writing or the examination (or one week prior to the
writing of the test).

Please visit the Diversity Calendars posted on our university's EDID
website for the recognized religious holidays:
[https://www.edi.uwo.ca](https://www.edi.uwo.ca/)

Accommodation Policies

Students with disabilities are encouraged to contact Accessible
Education, which provides recommendations for accommodation based on
medical documentation or psychological and cognitive testing. The policy
on Academic Accommodation for Students with Disabilities can be found
at:
<https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/Academic%20Accommodation_disabilities.pdf>

Academic Policies- The website for Registrar Services is
<https://www.registrar.uwo.ca/>.

In accordance with policy,
<https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/policies_procedures/section1/mapp113.pdf>

the centrally administered e-mail account provided to students will be
considered the individual's official university e-mail address. It is
the responsibility of the account holder to ensure that e-mail received
from the University at their official university address is attended to
in a timely manner.

Scholastic offences are taken seriously and students are directed to
read the appropriate policy, specifically, the definition of what
constitutes a Scholastic Offence, at the following Web site:

<https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/scholastic_discipline_undergrad.pdf>

All required papers may be subject to submission for textual similarity
review to the commercial plagiarism detection software under license to
the University for the detection of plagiarism. All papers submitted for
such checking will be included as source documents in the reference
database for the purpose of detecting plagiarism of papers subsequently
submitted to the system. Use of the service is subject to the licensing
agreement, currently between The University of Western Ontario and
Turnitin.com ([http://www.turnitin.com](http://www.turnitin.com/)).

## Weekly Participation -- (Weekly submissions) 

Weekly Assignments -- Base submission is pass/fail 70% (17.5 of 25)

Students **must** complete a minimum of **two engagement options
weekly** (Monday 12:01 am - Sunday 11:59 pm) to fulfill participation
requirements. Quizzes can be completed each week for one participation
mark. The remaining forms of participation can only be done twice each
during the entire course (i.e. you can only do 2 tiktoks per semester).
You can collaborate with peers on submissions, but they must be
submitted individually. You must adopt 5 different forms of
participation throughout the course to build your portfolio and prevent
rote production of participation. A total of 10 weeks of participation
is required, allowing students to skip 2 weeks (e.g., weeks 1 and 12).
Completing 10 weeks fulfills the full 70%. If you are submitting the
same assignment for a second time, make sure to address 'What did I do
differently this week?'

Weekly Engagement Options (a minimum of two options required per week):

1.  Brightspace Lesson Quiz Completion: Complete the 2 lesson quizzes in
    the 'Tests & Quizzes' section. These quizzes are pass/fail; only
    completion is counted, not quiz score. Each quiz counts for one
    participation mark. In class exercises will also count for one participation mark.

2.  Written Responses (250 words per lesson): A reflective analysis
    engaging with lesson ideas and concepts from lectures, readings, or
    both. This is not a summary but a critical engagement that links
    material to current international issues. Proper essay paragraph
    structure and intext citations are required where applicable. You
    must reference the course readings at least three times per week to
    get maximum grades. Submissions not meeting these standards are
    ineligible for full credit. Each written response counts for one
    participation mark. See detailed criteria below.

3.  Video Responses: A short (TikTok-style) video exploring a key
    academic issue from each lesson's content, suitable for a general
    audience. Videos must reference at least one academic, peer-reviewed
    source from our reading list and can be uploaded to Brightspace each
    week (or linked if hosted elsewhere). Public posting is not
    required. Each video counts for one participation mark.

4.  Other forms of participation from this list:
    <https://uwaterloo.ca/centre-for-teaching-excellence/Assessment-AI-Strategies>
    excluding: True/False Questions, Quiz, Exams and Tests,
    Fill-in-the-Blank Questions, Close Reading with Questions, Diagram
    or Image-Based Questions, Summary. If you have any questions please
    contact the instructor about the viability of your participation.

> Sample weekly participation submission:![Picture 565367195, Picture,
> Picture](/media/image2.png){width="4.989583333333333in"
> height="1.78125in"}

A Final calculation activity is **required** to receive your
participation mark.

At the end of the course students just need to calculate their
participation based on the submissions each week throughout the course.
We will take your top 10 weeks.\
\
2 forms of participation per week = 70% (pass/fail)\
\
More than 2 forms of participation each week, or substantive improvement
can result in a higher grade (the 80, 85 and 90 grades below are
approximations, I withhold the right to assess the quality of the
submission and adjust the grade accordingly). You should be able to
demonstrate your responses to my feedback, engaging with different
course material each week to demonstrate improvement throughout the
course. See Brightspace for an example of how to calculate your
participation grade.\
\
Attendance Bonus (5% on Final Exam)

Students will receive a 1% bonus on their final exam grade for every two
classes attended (attendance must be recorded through the Microsoft form
each week during class time), with a maximum of 10 classes considered to
earn the full 5% bonus. You can check your participation through the
link in Brightspace weekly. You cannot receive more than 100% on the
final exam.

## Term Assignment: (requires documentation for an academic consideration)

### Option 1 -- Paired Debate 

Students must sign up on the link in OWL by the end of week 3 for the
debate or essay proposal or they forfeit their grade.

In teams of two ONLY, students should pick a specific issue to the
politics of AI related to their area of interest in Week one. The debate
should outline the key issues from two opposing sides and points of
contention and present each side coherently and convincingly to the
class.

The debate should likely be framed in ethical or regulatory responses to
contemporary issues in the politics of AI. The responses should try to
take two different sides. MAXIMUM 5 MINUTES.\
The presentation should highlight:\
1. Key actors involved\
2. Relevant context or history related to the issue\
3. Claims and evidence put forward on both side\
4. Likely or actual outcome of the issue and the trajectory of the
relations moving forward

Students will need to upload their presentation in an accessible and
clear format (such as a series of tiktoks back and forth, youtube, etc)
for each week they sign up. Students must present on the week they sign
up or else they forfeit their grade. Students are encouraged to think
creatively about how they will present the debate and presentations may
take alternative formats as long as they accomplish the requirements
outlined above. In order to receive an individual mark, students must
upload a short (200 word) summary of their role in the debate
preparation and execution, assessing their groups' strengths and
weaknesses in OWL under 'Assignments'. All written work must use proper
essay paragraph structure and conform to the 'criteria for the
evaluation of written assignments' below or it cannot achieve full
grades.

### Option 2 - Media Assessment

Due at the end of Week 7. This assignment will critically engage with a
movie or documentary that deals with AI, technology and politics. A list
of acceptable material is available on the course webpage, and all media
must have sufficient levels of academic-based argumentation from our
class to warrant its use. All media assessments must have prior approval
of the instructor and must be signed up on the course website at least 2
weeks before it is handed in. The media assessment must critically
engage with the content of the movie for its use in our understand of
the course material, as well as base arguments in academic research and
debates. You should assess the media for its arguments about technology,
and the viability of the arguments given the academic debates on the
issue. The assignment should be a minimum of 1000 words, in proper essay
format (with title page and bibliography) and have a minimum of 4
academic sources, drawing primarily from course readings. All written
work must use proper essay paragraph structure and conform to the
'criteria for the evaluation of written assignments' in the course
syllabus or it cannot achieve full grades.

## Option 3: LLM assignment

Proposal for Final Paper Format and Rubric Development

Students will research and propose the format for their final essay or
policy analysis on AI regulation or politics, with a focus on the
acceptable integration of large language models (LLMs). The proposal
must include a detailed rubric for assessing the final paper and an
explanation of how it will be applied.

Required Proposal Components:

1.  **Acceptable Use of LLMs:**

- Define the role of LLMs in the writing process, specifying which
  aspects (e.g., research, drafting, editing) may involve AI-generated
  content.

- Determine how much \"human in the loop\" involvement is required and
  justify this balance using at least three course readings.

- Address ethical considerations, including issues like originality,
  academic integrity, and critical thinking.

2.  **Assessment Rubric:**

- Create a clear and detailed rubric for evaluating the final essay,
  including measurable categories such as originality, critical
  engagement with course readings, clarity and coherence of argument,
  transparency in LLM usage, and adherence to ethical guidelines.

- Define weightings for each category (e.g., originality 30%, critical
  engagement 25%, transparency 20%, etc.).

- Include specific descriptors for performance levels (e.g., excellent,
  satisfactory, needs improvement), and what would be necessary for each
  grading criteria.

3.  **Justification and Deployment:**

- Explain how the rubric will be applied to assess the final paper and
  why it is an effective tool for measuring academic performance in the
  context of LLM integration.

- Justify the rubric's design with evidence from at least three course
  readings.

- The proposal should be 1000-1250 words, written in essay format, with
  proper citations and a bibliography. **Due at the end of Week 7.**

## Option 4: Community Engaged Learning 

A few students will have the option of participating in a Community
Engaged Learning (CEL) opportunity with an offsite organization involved
in politics of AI issues. Students must submit an application in-class
for the opportunity to participate and will be graded on their
completion of the online-check in with the student success center, their
successful completion of their placement and a short (750 word)
reflective summary that links their work with the CEL to class content.
The reflection is just about how you felt about it in the beginning,
middle and end and how your expectations changed over time. I am looking
for reflection, if you can link to course themes that would be great,
but I am really assessing reflection in general. It shouldn\'t be too
long - I feel the CEL placement is the bulk of the work, it is really
just an expanded version of the logs with some reflection on what
happened, how your expectations changed and what you would say to
someone who wanted to do it next year (i.e. 4-5 double spaced pages).
All written work must use proper essay paragraph structure and conform
to the 'criteria for the evaluation of written assignments' below or it
cannot achieve full grades.

## Option 5: not encouraged - Essay Proposal 

Students must sign up for the essay proposal by the end of Week 3 on the
link in Brightspace or they forfeit their grade.

Students will produce a 1000--1250-word description, excluding
references (250 words per page), of the area of interest for their
study, due by the end of Week 7. The assignment should highlight the
area of interest of your research; the relevant ethical, social,
political, or economic implications of AI; the analytical framework or
method that you will analyze as most fruitful; as well as a list of
potential sources that are directly relevant to your area of interest
(potential issues, gaps, or problems with this list can be addressed in
the assignment). The assignment must be in proper formal essay format
(no bullet points, short form, or colloquial language), should use
subheadings to identify key issues, use proper citation, and should NOT
INCLUDE ANY FORM OF ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY. Dictionaries, encyclopedias,
and Wikipedia should not be used, and use of web material is subject to
instructor's prior approval.

All written work must use proper essay paragraph structure and conform
to the 'criteria for the evaluation of written assignments' below or it
cannot achieve full grades. A basic structure for the assignment would
be:

1.  Title that clearly answers the question for your topic. List of
    approved topics is available in Brightspace.

2.  The assignment should highlight the area of interest of your
    research; the relevant ethical, social, political, or economic
    implications of AI; and how your essay will answer the assigned
    question from the approved essay topic list.

3.  A clear and explicit explanatory response to the question based on
    your topic (i.e., your thesis). You must explain the implications of
    AI governance, regulation, or its societal impacts in the context of
    your topic. Pre-approved questions are here; they must be answered
    to complete the assignment.

4.  Three key distinct arguments with evidence in support of the thesis.
    You must follow the paragraph structure and citation format in the
    course outline. The essay topics should deal with some aspect of AI
    governance, a specific case study (either historical or ongoing),
    and a clear perspective in the essay on why the topic matters given
    class discussion.

5.  The paper MUST reference at least three of the specific theoretical
    frameworks, governance models, or ethical considerations discussed
    throughout the course. Failure to cite a minimum of three
    course-related sources will result in a failure to achieve full
    grades. Substantive engagement with the course materials is also
    required; a failure to integrate the course readings will limit your
    ability to get full grades.

6.  A complete list of all sources used in the paper (i.e., your
    bibliography) as well as accurately and properly cited academic
    material throughout. This may include non-academic sources, but
    there must be a minimum of 4 academic, peer-reviewed sources (and
    they should cover at least three different themes in your work),
    with an emphasis on course material.

7.  All written work must use proper essay paragraph structure and
    conform to the 'criteria for the evaluation of written assignments'
    below or it cannot achieve full grades.

Essay, Policy Analysis OR LLM assignment (part 2) (If Chosen)

### **35% of Final Grade -- Major Essay or Policy Analysis** Due in OWL at the end of **Week 10. The instructor may require that 10% of randomly selected students will have to meet to discuss their paper after completion to ensure there has been no improper LLM use.**

#### **Option One: Traditional Essay or Policy Analysis**

The final draft of the paper should be 8 pages (2000 words) in length
(excluding the bibliography) and must be presented in proper scholarly
format. Students will write a major research paper (based primarily on
academic sources) on a topic of their choice, to be arrived at in
consultation with the instructor. Essay topics should be chosen by Week
6. The essay will choose a pre-approved topic and explicitly address an
ethical, social, or regulatory challenge related to AI using a specific
theoretical framework or approach discussed in the course. The
assignment must be in proper formal essay format (no bullet points,
short form, or colloquial language; can use subheadings to identify
sections; use proper citation; and should NOT INCLUDE ANY FORM OF
ANNOTATED BIBLIOGRAPHY). Dictionaries, encyclopedias, and Wikipedia
should not be used, and use of web material is subject to the
instructor's prior approval. A basic structure for the essay will
include:

- **Title, topic, and thesis question or area of interest for potential
  research**. Preapproved topics and approaches are here.

- **A framework for analysis related to the ethical, social, or
  regulatory challenge**. The framework will provide the explanatory
  foundation of the thesis.

- **Three key distinct arguments with evidence in support of the
  thesis**. Follow the paragraph structure in the course outline. The
  data should primarily come from course readings, the pre-approved
  suggested readings, and the suggested texts. Students must engage with
  at least four course texts to complete the assignment, and the
  majority of academic sources (50% + 1) should come from the required
  and optional readings in the course outline.

- **A conclusion that mirrors your title, topic, and thesis question**.
  Rewrite your introduction after you have written your conclusion. Your
  conclusion should provide the clear foundation that you have
  established throughout the essay to demonstrate the validity of your
  thesis. Therefore, your thesis and conclusion should match one
  another. Failure to have consistent argumentation will result in the
  inability to achieve full grades.

- **Properly cited research**. In-text citation is preferred
  (author-date system, as outlined below in 'guidelines for success in
  class'). There should be no proxy URLs (<https://www.lib.uwo.ca/>), no
  search URLs (<http://search.proquest.com/scholarly-journals/>), or
  Dropbox URLs (<https://www.dropbox.com/>). Citations need to be
  consistently formatted, readily available, in English, with precise
  page numbers (no inclusion of p.23-44 or consistent citation across
  pages, i.e., p.118-119). Lack of data is a lack of foundation. In the
  era of LLMs, inaccurate citations will be treated as no citation at
  all. LLMs routinely summarize sources without accessing the underlying
  data. Failure to directly quote sources with quotation marks followed
  by an explanation in your own words will constitute a lack of
  sufficient citation. Paraphrasing is no longer sufficient
  justification for including a citation; you must use specific and
  precise language, including nouns (specific people, places, and
  things), as generalized summaries of sources are often hallucinated,
  inaccurate, and incomplete when suggested by LLMs.

- **A title page** with your name, a title for your paper that reflects
  the thesis and topic of your paper, the date of submission, and the
  course number on it. If you cannot clearly and simply identify the
  title and topic of your paper, it is often an indicator of a lack of
  focus.

- Papers submitted before the deadline can revise and resubmit the
  assignment. For details on revision and resubmission, see the 'revise
  and resubmit' tab in Brightspace.

- The Department's rules regarding plagiarism and the submission of
  similar essays to two or more different instructors are appended to
  this course outline and should be noted. (See 'Criteria for Evaluation
  of Written Assignments' below). Students must submit their papers
  through OWL, and all papers may be processed by Turnitin. Papers
  submitted after deadlines (including excused late papers) will be
  marked, but comments will not be provided.

#### **Option Two: AI Policy Analysis or Essay and Rubric Implementation**

(Available only to students who completed the LLM Term Proposal
Assignment)

Students will write a full policy analysis or essay on a topic related
to AI regulation or politics, adhering strictly to the format, LLM usage
guidelines, and assessment rubric outlined in their proposal.

**Requirements:**

- **Adherence to Proposed Format:** Students must follow the LLM
  integration process specified in their proposal and document its usage
  (e.g., annotated drafts, reflective notes, or appendices demonstrating
  AI input and human intervention).

- **Topic Scope:** Engage critically with a policy or regulatory issue
  related to AI, incorporating at least six academic sources, including
  three from course readings.

- **Rubric Implementation:**

  - Submit the final paper with the rubric from the proposal applied as
    a self-assessment.

  - Include a reflective commentary (500-750 words) explaining how the
    essay meets the rubric criteria and how LLM integration enhanced or
    constrained the writing process.

  - The instructor will use the same rubric for grading, ensuring
    consistency.

- **Length:** Approximately 2000 words, excluding the reflective
  commentary and appendices.

- **Late Penalty:** A penalty of 5% per day (to a maximum of 5 days)
  will apply to late submissions unless an extension is arranged in
  advance. Late submissions (even excused) may not receive detailed
  feedback.

### Final paper requirements 

The final draft of the paper should be 8 pages (2000 words) in length
(excluding the bibliography) and must be presented in proper scholarly
format. See the *Criteria for Evaluation of Written Assignments* and the
*Essay Evaluation Checklist* for a detailed description of the essay
requirements. All written work must use proper essay paragraph structure
and conform to the 'criteria for the evaluation of written assignments'
below or it cannot achieve full grades.

The Department's rules regarding plagiarism and the submission of
similar essays to two or more different instructors are appended to this
course outline and should be noted. (See 'Criteria for Evaluation of
Written Assignments' below). Students must submit their papers through
OWL and all papers may be processed by turnitin. Papers submitted after
deadlines (including excused late papers) will be marked, but comments
will not be provided.

## Summative Assignment 10% (if chosen)

Due at the end of Week 11. Minimum 2500 words required. The summative
assignment is only available to students who have completed a minimum of
2000 words of weekly responses throughout the course. If chosen,
students must also write the 40% in person final exam. The summative
assessment follows the guidelines of the weekly participation final
calculation. It must include every weekly participation submission as
well as a short 250-500 word reflective summary demonstrating clear
engagement with course materials throughout the course as well as
reflection and development of critical thinking throughout the course.
It is not available to students who complete less than 2000 words of
written work in their weekly participation.

## Final Exam 

15 or 40 % of final course grade. To be scheduled during the exam
period.

The final exam will be cumulative (i.e., will be based on the material
covered in lectures, assigned readings, and discussions throughout the
whole of the course). The exam may include both a short
answer/identification component and questions requiring longer,
essay-style responses. A choice of answers and an exam preparation guide
may be given. The examination requires a breadth of use of the course
readings, examination answers that reference one or two readings fail to
demonstrate breadth and cannot achieve full marks regardless of any
other criteria. All written work must use proper essay paragraph
structure and conform to the 'criteria for the evaluation of written
assignments' below or it cannot achieve full grades.

# Zoom Etiquette

1.  Please pay attention to video, microphone and screensharing
    settings. Keep chat rooms and images appropriate for an academic
    setting. Any inappropriate actions, imagery, discussion or chat
    messages may result in your removal from the meeting at my
    discretion. Audio recordings may be available as an alternative to
    synchronous discussion.

2.  Please test all WIFI, video and audio before the meetings. Zoom
    buttons for raising your hand, responding yes and no, asking host to
    adjust speed, requesting a break and more.

3.  Please be conscious of your speaking time and that of others, if you
    are continuing in a manner that is not fair to your peers, I reserve
    the right to intervene and put us back on a more focused discussion.

# Recording synchronous content (office hours or other meetings)

Any remote learning sessions for this course **may** be recorded. The
data captured during these recordings may include your image, voice
recordings, chat logs and personal identifiers (name displayed on the
screen). The recordings may be used for educational purposes related to
this course, including evaluations. The recordings may be disclosed to
other individuals participating in the course for their private or group
study purposes. Please contact the instructor if you have any concerns
related to session recordings. Participants in this course are not
permitted to record the sessions, except where recording is an approved
accommodation, or the participant has the prior written permission of
the instructor.

# Meeting the Requirements of the Assignment: 

All written work must be submitted on time, must be of the appropriate
length, must use the required number and type of resources, and, most
importantly, must address the issues or questions posed in the
assignment. All work must have sufficient academic content and sources
related to our course or else it cannot receive full marks.

# Non-medical and medical accommodation

Non-medical absences from class, late essays or assignments, will be
subject to a 10% penalty per day (weekends included). All assignments
must be completed to receive course credit. Further information is found
in the Policy on Accommodation for Medical Illness
(<https://studentservices.uwo.ca/secure/index.cfm>).

Accommodation for medical illness of work worth less than 10% of the
total course grade will require medical documentation. If documentation
is required for either medical or non-medical academic accommodation,
then such documentation must be submitted directly to the appropriate
Faculty Dean\`s office and [not]{.underline} to the instructor. Only the
Dean\`s office can determine if accommodation is warranted.

# Statement on Academic Offences

Scholastic offences are taken seriously, and students are directed to
read the appropriate policy, specifically, the definition of what
constitutes a Scholastic Offence, at the following Web site:
<http://www.uwo.ca/univsec/handbook/appeals/scholastic_discipline_undergrad.pdf>
.

"All required papers may be subject to submission for textual similarity
review to the commercial plagiarism detection software under license to
the University for the detection of plagiarism. All papers submitted for
such checking will be included as source documents in the reference
database for the purpose of detecting plagiarism of papers subsequently
submitted to the system. Use of the service is subject to the licensing
agreement, currently between The University of Western Ontario and
Turnitin.com ( <http://www.turnitin.com> )."

## Guidelines for Success in Class

Since there seldom are definitive answers to the questions we will be
asking about the politics of AI, and much of what you will learn in this
course will be enhanced by the ideas and perspectives of your
colleagues. But for this to work, everyone must participate fully and
constructively. Be mindful of the following points, and you will be
successful:

- Come to all classes having read the assigned readings for that week
  and prepared to participate in discussion. It is useful to remember
  that some week's readings may be more comfortable relevant to your
  research interests than others and focusing on readings that are most
  salient to your interests will ensure maximum usefulness in the
  course.

- Participate in discussions, but do not over-participate. Everyone must
  be given an opportunity to take part in discussions. Constructive
  participation involves the raising of *relevant* points and ideas.
  Online participation will be considered as well in participation
  marks.

- Demonstrate respect for the ideas presented by others at all times.
  This is essential to open discussion and the free exchange of ideas.
  This does not mean that you must agree with others. Informal debate
  will teach you even more about your own position while simultaneously
  exposing you to different viewpoints. Make use of such opportunities,
  but no disrespectful behavior will be tolerated.

# Criteria for the evaluation of written assignments

## Paragraph structure 

Basic paragraph structure is an important part of writing. Failure to
use basic paragraph structure will result in repetitive, unstructured,
illogical arguments. Paragraphs help to structure our thought, our
ability to make claims and provide a framework for writing. The topic
sentence and concluding sentence of a paragraph should be in your own
voice (no direct references). A basic paragraph structure should follow
this template:

Topic sentence one or two lines

Major point with evidence one or two lines

Major point with evidence one or two lines

Major point with evidence one or two lines

Summarizing sentence of overall significance to the overarching thesis
of the paper

Concluding sentence which restates topic sentence and bridges to next
paragraph.

Failure to use basic paragraph structure throughout your work will
result in the inability to receive full marks.

## Quotations

Quotations longer than 4 lines should be indented. Try to avoid
quotations longer than 4 lines. Assume that I do not read an indented
4-line quotation and make sure the sentence immediately following the
quotation summarizes its significance to your argument in your own
words. Never include quotations or sources in your introduction or
conclusion, your introduction and conclusion should outline the paper
structure in your own words.

## Citations and Bibliography

We will use the author date system. It keeps footnotes and endnotes to a
minimum.

- Text references will be short with the Surname, Date and page number
  (i.e. Žižek 2002: 342).

- Use this formatting everywhere, including sources from our reading
  list and in the response papers and any written work.

- Works by the same author in the same year should be cited as Žižek
  2002a, Žižek2002b, etc.

- Et al. can be used by sources with three or more authors. The full
  list must be in the bibliography.

- If you have more than one source in the same sentence you just include
  them with a semi-colon in chronological order i.e (Žižek 2002: 345;
  D'Amelio 2018: 212; Swift 2020: 445)

## Bibliography 

A bibliography must be included in all written work, it should include
the complete details of the work and included an 'Accessed' date if it
is an online source.

Sample bibliography

Bastos, Marco T., and Dan Mercea. \"The Brexit botnet and user-generated
hyperpartisan news.\" Social Science Computer Review 37.1 (2019): 38-54.

Dobber, T., R. F. Fahy, and FJ Zuiderveen Borgesius. \"The regulation of
online political micro-targeting in Europe.\" Internet Policy Review 8.4
(2019): 4.

Grieder, William. "How the swindlers of Silicon Valley avoid paying
taxes." The Nation, October 17, 2017,
<https://www.thenation.com/article/how-the-swindlers-of-silicon-valley-avoid-paying-taxes/>.
Accessed August 1, 2020.

Gill, Stephen. \"Transnational class formations, European crisis and the
silent revolution.\" Critical Sociology 43.4-5 (2017): 641.

## Analytical Content and Paragraph structure:

Higher grades will be given to work that demonstrates the ability to
interpret, critically assess and develop insights of the material. To
determine whether or not your argument is analytical, ask yourself \"Am
I demonstrating to the reader my insights in an academic way?" If you
are simply summarizing or describing in detail phenomena, your work is
unlikely to have high analytical content.

*Helpful signs you are not developing analytical content: Excessive
quotes; beginning or ending a paragraph with a quote; short (fewer than
4 sentences) paragraphs; no sources in a long paragraph; lack of similar
argument in introduction and conclusion.*

## Development of an Argument:

Higher grades will be given to work that has a clearly stated argument
and a set of logically developed and reasonably comprehensive points in
support of that argument. Academic arguments need not be personal
(though in certain instances they can be -- check with the instructor),
rather they demonstrate the logical progression of the position you are
developing. The key here is to attempt to convince your reader of the
soundness or feasibility of your argument. Nuanced arguments recognize
obvious criticisms and seek to address them logically. Consistency of an
argument throughout a paper is important.

*Helpful signs your argument may be in trouble: Using the same author or
quote more than a few times in successive paragraphs; your introduction
and conclusion are not similar; you introduce material in the
introduction and the conclusion that cannot be found elsewhere; you have
quotes in your conclusion; your attempt to address obvious criticisms
contradicts your thesis, you adopt multiple theoretical frameworks; you
cannot find any sources that agree with your central claims.*

## Grammar, Spelling, and Style: 

Higher grades will be given to written work that is grammatically
correct and is clearly and accurately written, while lower grades will
be given to work that is difficult to read or understand due to
excessive grammatical and/or spelling errors.

*While different approaches work for different people, it is recommended
that you try the following every time you have a written assignment:
after completing your assignment, put it away for a while (ideally, for
a few days); when you pick it up again, read it carefully, slowly, and
aloud (when we are familiar with a paper we tend to skim it during
proof-reading, thereby missing errors -- so make sure you are reading it
word for word). Mistakes in grammar may not always look wrong, but they
usually sound wrong. If you need some help with writing style or
grammar, there are many resources available on campus.*

# General

All students must complete all course requirements. Failure to do so
(e.g., by not handing-in an assignment or by missing an examination
without due cause) will subject the student to the appropriate
University regulations. Students must also keep a duplicate copy of
their assignments.

## Policy on communication

I strive to be accessible and responsive to student inquiries. However,
repeated or persistent e-mails/texts/phone calls will overload my
capacity to respond to all students equally. As such, I reserve the
right to answer initial questions but forego multiple responses or
inquires for a 24hour cool-down period. I also may take longer to
respond to communications during non-working hours, holidays, and
weekends. I appreciate your understanding in this matter.

## Late Assignments - Formal Guidelines

Late papers will be accepted but will be subject to a late penalty of 10
per cent per day to a maximum of 5 days, after which they will not be
accepted and a mark of 0 will be recorded. In the interest of fairness
to all students, there will be no exceptions to this unless you have
arranged in advance for an extension. All extensions must be arranged in
advance of the day on which a paper is due**. Papers submitted after
deadlines (including excused late papers) will be marked, but comments
will not be** **provided.**

## Policy on Children in the classroom[^1]

"It is my belief that if we want women in academia, that we should also
expect children to be present in some form. Currently, the university
does not have a formal policy on children in the classroom. The policy
described here is thus, a reflection of my own beliefs and commitments
to student, staff and faculty parents.

All exclusively breastfeeding babies are welcome in class as often as is
necessary to support the breastfeeding relationship. Because not all
women can pump sufficient milk, and not all babies will take a bottle
reliably, I never want students to feel like they have to choose between
feeding their baby and continuing their education. You and your nursing
baby are welcome in class anytime.

For older children and babies, I understand that minor illnesses and
unforeseen disruptions in childcare often put parents in the position of
having to choose between missing class to stay home with a child and
leaving him or her with someone you or the child does not feel
comfortable with. While this is not meant to be a long-term childcare
solution, occasionally bringing a child to class in order to cover gaps
in care is perfectly acceptable.

I ask that all students work with me to create a welcoming environment
that is respectful of all forms of diversity, including diversity in
parenting status.

In all cases where babies and children come to class, I ask that you sit
close to the door so that if your little one needs special attention and
is disrupting learning for other students, you may step outside until
their need has been met. Non-parents in the class, please reserve seats
near the door for your parenting classmates.

Finally, I understand that often the largest barrier to completing your
coursework once you become a parent is the tiredness many parents feel
in the evening once children have finally gone to sleep. The struggles
of balancing school, childcare and often another job are exhausting! I
hope that you will feel comfortable disclosing your student-parent
status to me. This is the first step in my being able to accommodate any
special needs that arise. While I maintain the same high expectations
for all student in my classes regardless of parenting status, I am happy
to problem solve with you in a way that makes you feel supported as you
strive for school-parenting balance. Thank you for the diversity you
bring to our classroom!"

## Policy on non-service animals in the classroom 

Western University established a [Pets and Therapy Animals policy in May
2020](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/policies_procedures/section1/mapp156.pdf)
that limits the presence of pets in campus buildings. Service and
therapy animals are permitted inside all Western locations, in
accordance with accessibility policies, however animals for
companionship are not allowed.

## Religious/Cultural Observance 

Persons who have religious or cultural observances that coincide with
this class should let the instructor know in writing (by e-mail for
example) by Week 4. I strongly encourage you to honor your cultural and
religious holidays! However, if I do not hear from you by Week 4, I will
assume that you plan to attend all class meetings.

## Point of View

The readings, class lectures, and my comments in class will suggest a
particular point of view. This perspective is my own and does not have
to be yours! I encourage you to disagree with the ideas in the readings
and lectures as well as the perspectives of your colleagues in the
course. Please express yourself! A significant part of a university
education is learning about the complexity of various issues; therefore,
it is important that we listen and respect one another but we do not
have to agree. A richer discussion will occur when a variety of
perspectives are presented in class for discussion.

## Academic Sources

A key aspect of the university experience is developing your ability to
assess the validity of sources. Academic sources such as those found on
Google Scholar should be your primary source of arguments, ideas and
claims made in the course. While it may be appropriate to provide
anecdotal, non-academic, news, theories from outside the academy as data
points, all arguments must be situated in triangulated academic
research. By triangulation (you may see a ∆ on your assignments) this is
the idea that academic peer review provides a foundation for the
veracity of the claims being made. if you rely too heavily on one source
(i.e. that more than 3 footnotes in a row are from the same source) you
may be veering towards summary or plagiarism of that source as it lacks
proper verification from other academics who agree with those
assessments. Moreover, most sources have implicit or explicit
frameworks, understandings, biases which you may not be able to assess
without triangulation. While there is no explicit number of sources
required on assignments, you will be unable to achieve full marks if you
do not have academic arguments with academic sources. This is a standard
expectation of all assignments in this class.

## Discussion Guidelines[^2]

In our structured and unstructured discussions and dialogues, we also
will have many opportunities to explore some challenging, high-stakes
issues and increase our understandings of different perspectives. Our
conversations may not always be easy; we sometimes will make mistakes in
our speaking and our listening; sometimes we will need patience or
courage or imagination or any number of qualities in combination to
engage our texts, our classmates, and our own ideas and experiences.
Always we will need respect for others. Thus, an important secondary aim
of our course necessarily will be for us to increase our facility with
the sometimes-difficult conversations that arise inside issues of social
inequality as we deepen our understandings of multiple perspectives --
whatever our backgrounds, experiences, or positions.

## Policy on the use of LLMs (AI, ChatGPT, Bard, etc) in the classroom **^3^**

Unless otherwise noted during class activities, you may only use ChatGPT
or any other Generative technology to *aid* or *nuance* your thinking,
communication, and learning; but not to *replace* or *subvert* it. See
the table below for some examples of allowable and non-allowable uses of
Generative technology in this class (NOTE: This is not an exhaustive
list of examples). Generative technology may be used to assist in
assessment throughout the course, if you wish to opt out of the use of
generative technology, please let me know.

How generative technology may be used in assessment:

1\. Pre-assessment - to provide structural or overall feedback before
begining any grading.

2\. Applying rubric - using the rubric from the course outline to apply
to submitted assignments to assess the degree of compliance before or
during completing any grading.

3\. During assessment - to double-check the veracity of claims being
made about your submission during the assessment of your material.

4\. Post assessment - to find additional examples or instances in your
submissions to assist in providing feedback.

5\. Refining assessment - suggesting forms of constructive criticism,
actionable items, and overarching themes or issues to assist in your
assessment.

6\. Checking for unauthorized AI use, following University guidelines
(and those attached below).

How generative technology will NOT be used in assessment:

No grades will be assigned solely with generative technology at any
point in this course. Assessment will always be done by the
instructor/graders in accordance with the course outlines, because of
the unpredictability and unreliability of current generative technology.

No personal or individual identifiers will ever be included in the
assessment of material by any generative technology.

+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Example of   | **Why is this Allowed?**                                                                                                 | **Things to Keep in Mind**                                                        |
| an Allowable   |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| Use**          |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Prompting      | This might enhance your thinking by **exposing you to other ideas** than you might come up with on your own.             | It is important to start with **brainstorming your own ideas first** (to aid your |
| Generative     |                                                                                                                          | creative thinking), rather than letting Generative technology do that initial     |
| technology to  |                                                                                                                          | work for you. Also, beware that Generative technology might introduce biases      |
| **generate**   |                                                                                                                          | (tends towards liberal consensus) into the topic when prompted to generate ideas. |
| **ideas** for  |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| a class        |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| project.       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Using          | Generative technology writing technologies, like ChatGPT, can provide ideas for how to revise a sentence or word, begin  | Make sure to **get your [thoughts written down                                    |
| Generative     | a paragraph, or express your thinking more clearly. Used in this way, Generative technology might support the            | first](https://www.criticalinkling.com/p/pedagogy-thinking-and-the-first-draft)** |
| technology for | development of your communication skills.                                                                                | rather than asking Generative technology to write the first draft. Writing and    |
| writing        |                                                                                                                          | thinking are interconnected processes, if you prompt Generative technology to     |
| support (e.g., |                                                                                                                          | write the first draft for you, you are not actively engaging in thinking about    |
| to improve     |                                                                                                                          | the material.                                                                     |
| **writing      |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| quality,       |                                                                                                                          | NOTE: We also have a wonderful [Writing Center on                                 |
| clarity, and   |                                                                                                                          | campus](https://writing.uwo.ca/) that provides writing support!                   |
| expression**). |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Using          | Generative technology can offer study tips, provide example text/quiz practice questions, design a personalized study    | Generative technology tools are known for making up information and presenting    |
| Generative     | guide, design flashcards, give directions for how to complete an assignment, create learning simulations and interactive | biased output. Make sure to double-check the accuracy, credibility, and           |
| technology as  | scenarios to help you think more deeply about the class content, and provide a rubric so you can self-assess your own    | reliability of any AI-generated information that you use to support your studying |
| a **study or   | work.                                                                                                                    | or assignment completion.                                                         |
| assignment     |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| aid.**         |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Prompting      | Generative technology could potentially be used in ways that reduce cognitive load (see [Cognitive Load                  | If Generative technology are used in ways that reduce [germane                    |
| Generative     | Theory](https://www.mcw.edu/-/media/MCW/Education/Academic-Affairs/OEI/Faculty-Quick-Guides/Cognitive-Load-Theory.pdf)), | load](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747563224002541) (the   |
| technology to  | such as breaking material into smaller chunks, summarizing and simplifying material, providing an outline of an article  | cognitive effort required to make connections between new information and prior   |
| help **make    | to support pre-reading, translating text into your native language, making content more accessible, scaffolding          | knowledge) it can negatively impact learning. For example, if you ask a           |
| information    | learning, and providing concrete examples.                                                                               | Generative technology technology to automatically summarize a complex academic    |
| easier to      |                                                                                                                          | article instead of reading and summarizing it yourself, you will miss out on the  |
| understand**   |                                                                                                                          | opportunity to fully engage with, and critically examine, the author's ideas      |
| (e.g.,         |                                                                                                                          | (read: [No One is Talking About AI\'s Impact on                                   |
| explaining     |                                                                                                                          | Reading](https://marcwatkins.substack.com/p/no-one-is-talking-about-ais-impact)). |
| technical or   |                                                                                                                          | This is a critical skill for college, the workplace, and engaged citizenship!     |
| academic       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| jargon,        |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| providing      |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| concrete       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| examples of an |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| abstract       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| idea).         |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Using AI and   | Generative technology can be used to make learning more accessible and digitally accessible for differently abled        | If you have a self-identified or registered disability, consider how Generative   |
| Generative     | individuals (e.g., transcripts of recorded audio, closed captions for videos, alt text to describe images for            | technology tools might aid your thinking, communication, and learning.            |
| technology is  | blind/visually impaired individuals, interpretations of complex visual data).                                            |                                                                                   |
| recommended    |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| **due to       |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| different      |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
| abilities.**   |                                                                                                                          |                                                                                   |
+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

  ------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Example of a     **Why is this NOT Allowed?**
  Non-Allowable      
  Use**              

  Prompting a        Discussion prompts are meant to incorporate your voice and your thoughts. Participating in discussions is about building
  Generative         community and relationships as well as actively engaging in your own thinking and learning to communicate with others. Using
  technology         Generative technology for this activity subverts both the social and learning goals of the activity.
  technology to      
  **respond to a     
  discussion forum   
  prompt** for you.  

  Using a Generative Designing a presentation requires you to actively engage in thinking and learning about the material and consider how best
  technology         to communicate that information to an audience. Prompting Generative technology to do this work for you subverts your
  technology (e.g.,  learning and the opportunity to develop your creative communication skills.
  Slidesgo) to       
  **design a class   
  presentation** for 
  you.               

  Modifying          Making minor adjustments to AI-generated work only supports surface-level learning, rather than deep learning ([learn
  AI-generated work  more](https://www.psy.gla.ac.uk/~steve/courses/archive/CERE12-13-safari-archive/topic9/webarchive-index.html)), because the
  slightly to **make focus is on minor adjustments rather than truly understanding the material.
  it appear as if    
  you created it**.  

  Prompting          Research has shown that using Generative technology to provide solutions for you (or in this case, provide data analysis
  Generative         output for you) prevents you from actively engaging with, and learning, the material (read: [Generative AI Can Harm
  technology to      Learning](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4895486&utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email)). Using
  **analyze data for Generative technology in this way subverts your learning. Additionally, Generative technology tools are not calculators or
  you** and          math machines, they are predictability machines (they guess which words go together to make the most plausible
  submitting the     human-sounding response).
  data analysis as   
  your own.          

  Copying            Please read "[The Case For Not Citing Chatbots As Information
  AI-generated text  Sources](https://scholarlykitchen.sspnet.org/2024/06/20/the-case-for-not-citing-chatbots-as-information-sources-part-ii/)"
  word for word into and "[Generative AI Has an Intellectual Property
  your written work  Problem](https://hbr.org/2023/04/generative-ai-has-an-intellectual-property-problem)" and, instead, find an original source
  but **citing it as to cite. When you put in the effort to find an original source to cite, you are deepening your thinking and learning about
  written by AI**.   that topic, and you are giving credit to human authors/artists.
  ------------------ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You are responsible for the information you submit based on an AI query
(for instance, that it does not violate intellectual property laws, or
contain misinformation or unethical content). Any assignment that is
found to have used generative AI tools in unauthorized ways can result
in: a failure to receive full grades, the need to resubmit the
assignment, need to orally present the assignment in office hours, or a
failure to complete the requirements of the course. When in doubt about
permitted usage, please ask for clarification.

Reading Schedule

**Week 1: Tech Roots and Routes**

Required:

- Edgerton, David. The shock of the old: Technology and global history
  since 1900. Profile books, 2011. Ch 1.

- Haraway, Donna. \""a cyborg manifesto"(1985).\" Cultural theory: An
  anthology (2010): 454.

- Townes, Miles. \"The spread of TCP/IP: How the Internet became the
  Internet.\" Millennium 41.1 (2012): 43-64.

Suggested:

Cordeschi, Roberto. \"Cybernetics.\" The Blackwell guide to the
philosophy of computing and information (2004): 186-196.

Faulkner, Wendy. \"The technology question in feminism: A view from
feminist technology studies.\" Women\'s studies international forum.
Vol. 24. No. 1. Pergamon, 2001.

Latour, Bruno. \"Technology is society made durable.\" The sociological
review 38.S1 (1990): 103-131.

Oudshoorn, Nelly, and Trevor Pinch. How users matter: the
co-construction of users and technology (inside technology). MIT Press,
2003.

Sekula, Allan. \"The body and the archive.\" October 39 (1986): 3-64.

Winner, Langdon. \"Do artifacts have politics?.\" Computer ethics.
Routledge, 2017. 177-192.\
Jeorges, B. (1999). \"Do Politics have Artifacts?\" Social Studies of
Science 29(3): 411-431.

AI concept of the week: What do we mean by artificial?

<https://www.thecollector.com/automata-ai-comparison-historical-cultural-comparison/>

**Week 2: Digital sovereignty and security**

Required:

- Mueller, Milton L. \"Against sovereignty in cyberspace.\"
  International studies review 22.4 (2020): 779-801.

- Nye, Joseph S. Cyber power. Cambridge: Harvard Kennedy School, Belfer
  Center for Science and International Affairs, 2010.

- Norris, Pippa. Digital divide: Civic engagement, information poverty,
  and the Internet worldwide. Cambridge University Press, 2001. Ch 1.

- Suzor, Nicolas P. Lawless: The secret rules that govern our digital
  lives. Cambridge University Press, 2019. Ch 2 and 4.

Suggested:

Carr, Madeline. \"Public--private partnerships in national
cyber-security strategies.\" International Affairs 92.1 (2016): 43-62.

Deibert, Ronald J. \"Black code: Censorship, surveillance, and the
militarisation of cyberspace.\" Millennium 32.3 (2003): 501-530.

Hansen, Lene, and Helen Nissenbaum. \"Digital disaster, cyber security,
and the Copenhagen School.\" International studies quarterly 53.4
(2009): 1155-1175.

Herod, Andrew. Scale. Routledge, 2010. Ch 1.

Stalder, Felix. Manuel Castells: The theory of the network

AI concept of the week: What do we mean by intelligence?

<https://youtu.be/3PIpCD_hO-g?si=zOQPi_91bAY4ymda>

Broussard, Meredith. Artificial unintelligence: How computers
misunderstand the world. mit Press, 2018.

**Week 3: Regulation and Governance**

Required:

- Noble, Safiya Umoja. \"Algorithms of oppression.\" Algorithms of
  oppression. New York university press, 2018.Intro and Ch 1.

- Gorwa, Robert. \"What is platform governance?.\" Information,
  communication & society 22.6 (2019): 854-871.

- Mellamphy, Nandita Biswas. \"Humans "in the Loop"?: Human-Centrism,
  Posthumanism, and AI.\" Nature and Culture 16.1 (2021): 11-27.

- Neff, Gina. The political economy of digital health. Oxford: Oxford
  University Press, 2019.

Suggested:

Ardia, David S. \"Free speech savior or shield for scoundrels: an
empirical study of intermediary immunity under Section 230 of the
Communications Decency Act.\" Loy. LAL Rev. 43 (2009): 373.\
Eubanks, Virginia. Automating inequality: How high-tech tools profile,
police, and punish the poor. St. Martin\'s Press, 2018.

Rosen, Jeffrey. \"The right to be forgotten.\" Stan. L. Rev. Online 64
(2011): 88.

Costanza-Chock, Sasha. Design justice: Community-led practices to build
the worlds we need. The MIT Press, 2020.

Roberts, Margaret. Censored: distraction and diversion inside China\'s
Great Firewall. Princeton University Press, 2018.

Gillespie, Tarleton. \"The politics of 'platforms'.\" New media &
society 12.3 (2010): 347-364.

Van Dijck, José, Thomas Poell, and Martijn De Waal. The platform
society: Public values in a connective world. Oxford University Press,
2018.

Benjamin, Ruha. \"Race after technology.\" Social Theory Re-Wired.
Routledge, 2023. 405-415.

AI concept of the week: what is a transformer?

<https://blogs.nvidia.com/blog/what-is-a-transformer-model/>

**Week 4: Open versus closed source**

Required:

- Nafus, Dawn. \"'Patches don't have gender': What is not open in open
  source software.\" New Media & Society 14.4 (2012): 669-683.

- Steele, Robert David. \"Open source intelligence.\" Handbook of
  intelligence studies 42.5 (2007): 129-147.

- Carlson, Matt. \"The robotic reporter: Automated journalism and the
  redefinition of labor, compositional forms, and journalistic
  authority.\" Journalism in an Era of Big Data. Routledge, 2018.
  108-123.

- Mortensen, Mette, and Christina Neumayer. \"The playful politics of
  memes.\" Information, Communication & Society 24.16 (2021): 2367-2377.

Suggested:

Trittin-Ulbrich, Hannah, et al. \"Exploring the dark and unexpected
sides of digitalization: Toward a critical agenda.\" Organization 28.1
(2021): 8-25.

Ireni-Saban, Liza, and Maya Sherman. Ethical Governance of Artificial
Intelligence in the Public Sector. Routledge, 2021.

AI concept of the week: what\'s the difference between pre-training and
fine-tuning?

<https://youtu.be/zjkBMFhNj_g?si=3jktl6jdm_4zCs_Q&t=895>

**Week 5: Social Media or Anti-Social media?**

Required:

- Fuchs, Christian. \"Social media: A critical introduction.\" Social
  Media (2021) ch 1. or
  <https://stratechery.com/2021/facebook-political-problems/>

- Bousfield, Dan. \"Neoliberalism, race, and ignorance in an era of
  covid-19.\" Covid-19 and the Global Political Economy (2022): 53-67.

- Williams, James. Stand out of our light: Freedom and resistance in the
  attention economy. Cambridge University Press, 2018. Ch 1.

- Venturini, Tommaso. \"From fake to junk news: The data politics of
  online virality.\" Data politics. Routledge, 2019. 123-144.

Suggested:

Zhang, Xichen, and Ali A. Ghorbani. \"An overview of online fake news:
Characterization, detection, and discussion.\" Information Processing &
Management 57.2 (2020): 102025.\
Schirch, Lisa, ed. social media impacts on conflict and democracy: The
techtonic shift. Routledge, 2021.

Banet-Weiser, Sarah. Empowered: Popular feminism and popular misogyny.
Duke University Press, 2018.

Anderau, Glenn. \"Defining fake news.\" KRITERION--Journal of Philosophy
35.3 (2021): 197-215.

Persily, Nathaniel, and Joshua A. Tucker, eds. \"Social media and
democracy: The state of the field, prospects for reform.\" (2020).

Grossman, Emiliano. \"Media and policy making in the digital age.\"
Annual Review of Political Science 25 (2022): 443-461.

Grossman, Guy, Yotam Margalit, and Tamar Mitts. \"How the ultrarich use
media ownership as a political investment.\" The Journal of Politics
84.4 (2022): 1913-1931.

Napoli, Philip. Social media and the public interest: Media regulation
in the disinformation age. Columbia University Press, 2019.

Curran, James, and Jean Seaton. Power without responsibility: press,
broadcasting and the internet in Britain. Routledge, 2018.

AI concept of the week: what do we mean by cognitive offloading?

<https://tcet.unt.edu/cognitive-offloading-media-multitasking-and-artificial-intelligence>

**Week 6: Settler Colonialism and Decolonizing Technology**

Required:

- Kolopenuk, J. (2018). \"'Pop-up' Métis and the Rise of Canada's
  Post-Indigenous Formation.\" World Anthropologies, 120(2), 333-337.

- Adams, Rachel. \"Can artificial intelligence be decolonized?.\"
  Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 46.1-2 (2021): 176-197.

- Tunstall, Elizabeth Dori. Decolonizing design: A cultural justice
  guidebook. MIT Press, 2023. Ch 2.

- Alcantara, Christopher, and Caroline Dick. \"Decolonization in a
  digital age: cryptocurrencies and indigenous self-determination in
  Canada.\" Canadian Journal of Law and Society/La Revue Canadienne
  Droit et Société 32.1 (2017): 19-35.

Suggested:

Wemigwans, J. (2019). \"Decolonizing the Digital.\" In \"A Digital
Bundle: Protecting and Promoting Indigenous Knowledge Online\" (pp.
43-69). University of Regina Press.

McMahon, R. (2014). \"From Digital Divides to the First Mile: Indigenous
Peoples and the Network Society in Canada.\" International Journal of
Communication 8: 2002-2026.

Meighan, Paul J. \"Decolonizing the digital landscape: The role of
technology in Indigenous language revitalization.\" AlterNative: An
International Journal of Indigenous Peoples 17.3 (2021): 397-405.\
Karsgaard, Carrie, and Maggie MacDonald. \"Picturing the pipeline:
Mapping settler colonialism on Instagram.\" new media & society 22.7
(2020): 1206-1226.\
Crosby, Andrew. \"The racialized logics of settler colonial policing:
Indigenous 'communities of concern' and critical infrastructure in
Canada.\" Settler Colonial Studies 11.4 (2021): 411-430.

AI concept of the week: what do we mean by human labelers?

<https://tribunemag.co.uk/2021/05/how-artificial-intelligence-depends-on-low-paid-workers>

**Week 7: Ecological 'technofixes'**

Required:

- Stoddard, Isak, et al. \"Three decades of climate mitigation: why
  haven\'t we bent the global emissions curve?.\" Annual Review of
  Environment and Resources 46 (2021): 653-689.

- Wagner, Gernot, and Daniel Zizzamia. \"Green moral hazards.\" Ethics,
  Policy & Environment 25.3 (2022): 264-280.

- Crawford, Kate. The atlas of AI: Power, politics, and the planetary
  costs of artificial intelligence. Yale University Press, 2021.

- Dauvergne, Peter. \"The power of environmental norms: marine plastic
  pollution and the politics of microbeads.\" Environmental Politics
  27.4 (2018): 579-597.

Suggested:

McLaren, Duncan, and Nils Markusson. \"The co-evolution of technological
promises, modelling, policies and climate change targets.\" Nature
Climate Change 10.5 (2020): 392-397.

Brozović, Danilo. \"Societal collapse: A literature review.\" Futures
145 (2023): 103075.

Ludwig, David, and Phil Macnaghten. \"Traditional ecological knowledge
in innovation governance: a framework for responsible and just
innovation.\" Journal of Responsible Innovation 7.1 (2020): 26-44.

Rye, Craig D., and Tim Jackson. \"A review of EROEI-dynamics
energy-transition models.\" Energy policy 122 (2018): 260-272.

Parrique, Timothée, et al. \"Decoupling debunked.\" Evidence and
arguments against green growth as a sole strategy for sustainability. A
study edited by the European Environment Bureau EEB (2019).

Wiedmann, Thomas, et al. \"Scientists' warning on affluence.\" Nature
communications 11.1 (2020): 3107.

Borras Jr, Saturnino M., et al. \"Climate change and agrarian struggles:
an invitation to contribute to a JPS Forum.\" The Journal of Peasant
Studies 49.1 (2022): 1-28.

AI concept of the week: what do we mean by models?

<https://medium.com/data-science-at-microsoft/how-large-language-models-work-91c362f5b78f>

**Week 8: Labor, Automation, and the Gig Economy**

Required:

- De Stefano, Valerio. \"The rise of the just-in-time workforce:
  On-demand work, crowdwork, and labor protection in the gig-economy.\"
  Comp. Lab. L. & Pol\'y J. 37 (2015): 471.

- Srnicek, Nick. Platform capitalism. John Wiley & Sons, 2017. Intro, Ch
  1.

- Zukin, Sharon. The innovation complex: Cities, tech, and the new
  economy. Oxford University Press, 2020. Intro, Ch 1.

- Munn, Luke. Automation is a Myth. Stanford University Press, 2022.
  Intro, Ch 1.

Suggested:

Couldry, Nick, and Ulises A. Mejias. The costs of connection: How data
is colonizing human life and appropriating it for capitalism. Stanford
University Press, 2020.

Pollio, Andrea, and Liza Rose Cirolia. \"Fintech urbanism in the startup
capital of Africa.\" Journal of Cultural Economy 15.4 (2022): 508-523.

Nyabola, Nanjala. \"Africa\'s Digital Public Sphere.\" Routledge
Handbook of African Political Philosophy. Routledge, 2023. 315-329.

Mindell, David A. Our robots, ourselves: Robotics and the myths of
autonomy. Viking, 2015.

Dauvergne, Peter, and Genevieve LeBaron. Protest Inc.: The
corporatization of activism. John Wiley & Sons, 2014.

Fan, Jennifer S. \"Woke capital: The role of corporations in social
movements.\" Harv. Bus. L. Rev. 9 (2019): 441.

AI concept of the week: what do we mean by 'agency laundering'?

<https://www.technologyreview.com/2014/08/19/74207/in-praise-of-efficient-price-gouging/>

**Week 9: CRISPR, genomes and biohacking**

Required:

- Greely, Henry T. CRISPR people: the science and ethics of editing
  humans. MIT Press, 2022. Part 1 ***or*** Wang, Joy Y., and Jennifer A.
  Doudna. \"CRISPR technology: A decade of genome editing is only the
  beginning.\" Science 379.6629 (2023): eadd8643.

- Ikemoto, Lisa C. \"DIY bio: hacking life in biotech\'s backyard.\"
  UCDL Rev. 51 (2017): 539.

- Garner, Samual A., and Jiyeon Kim. \"The privacy risks of
  direct-to-consumer genetic testing: A case study of 23andMe and
  Ancestry.\" Wash. UL Rev. 96 (2018): 1219.

Suggested:

Morley, Jessica, et al. \"The ethics of AI in health care: a mapping
review.\" Social Science & Medicine 260 (2020): 113172.

Char, Danton S., Nigam H. Shah, and David Magnus. \"Implementing machine
learning in health care---addressing ethical challenges.\" The New
England journal of medicine 378.11 (2018): 981.

Fins, Joseph. Rights come to mind: brain injury, ethics, and the
struggle for consciousness. Cambridge University Press, 2015.

AI concept of the week: What do we mean by synthetic data?

<https://research.ibm.com/blog/what-is-synthetic-data>

**Week 10: Surveillance and Privacy**

Required:

- Zuboff, Shoshana. \"Big Other: Surveillance Capitalism and the
  Prospects of an Information Civilization.\" Journal of Information
  Technology, April 2015.

- Lyon, David. \"Surveillance, Snowden, and Big Data: Capacities,
  consequences, critique.\" Big Data & Society, July-Dec. 2014.

- Ball, Kirstie, and Laureen Snider, eds. The surveillance-industrial
  complex: A political economy of surveillance. Routledge, 2013. Intro
  Ch 1.

- Aho, Brett, and Roberta Duffield. \"Beyond surveillance capitalism:
  Privacy, regulation and big data in Europe and China.\" Economy and
  Society 49.2 (2020): 187-212.

Suggested:

Sadowski, Jathan. \"When data is capital: Datafication, accumulation,
and extraction.\" Big data & society 6.1 (2019): 2053951718820549.

Smith, Gavin JD. \"Surveillance, data and embodiment: On the work of
being watched.\" Body & Society 22.2 (2016): 108-139.

Benjamin, Ruha, ed. Captivating technology: Race, carceral
technoscience, and liberatory imagination in everyday life. Duke
University Press, 2019.

Braman, Sandra. Change of state: Information, policy, and power. Mit
Press, 2009.

AI concept of the week: Are faces, public or private?

<https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/03/18/magazine/facial-recognition-clearview-ai.html>

**Week 11: Hybrid Warfare**

Required:

- Hoffman, Frank G. \"Hybrid warfare and challenges.\" Strategic
  Studies. Routledge, 2014. 329-337.

- Johnson, Robert. \"Hybrid war and its countermeasures: a critique of
  the literature.\" Small wars & insurgencies 29.1 (2018): 141-163.

- Ramazani, Vaheed. \"Exceptionalism, metaphor and hybrid warfare.\"
  Culture, Theory and Critique 59.3 (2018): 193-214.

Suggested:

Nye, Joseph. \"How sharp power threatens soft power.\" Foreign affairs
24 (2018).

Murray, Williamson, and Peter R. Mansoor, eds. Hybrid warfare: fighting
complex opponents from the ancient world to the present. Cambridge
University Press, 2012.

Driedger, Jonas J., and Mikhail Polianskii. \"Utility-based predictions
of military escalation: Why experts forecasted Russia would not invade
Ukraine.\" Contemporary Security Policy 44.4 (2023): 544-560.

AI concept of the week: how deep do fakes have to be?

<https://www.theverge.com/2019/3/5/18251736/deepfake-propaganda-misinformation-troll-video-hoax>

**Week 12: Digital Diplomacy**

Required:

- Bjola, Corneliu, and Marcus Holmes. Digital diplomacy: Theory and
  practice. Routledge, 2015. Intro, Ch 1.

- Barrinha, André, and Thomas Renard. \"Cyber-diplomacy: the making of
  an international society in the digital age.\" Global Affairs 3.4-5
  (2017): 353-364.

- Bousfield, Dan. \"Revisiting cyber-diplomacy: Canada--China relations
  online.\" Globalizations 14.6 (2017): 1045-1059.

Suggested:

Manor, Ilan, and Elad Segev. \"Social media mobility: Leveraging Twitter
networks in online diplomacy.\" Global Policy 11.2 (2020): 233-244.

Adesina, Olubukola S. \"Foreign policy in an era of digital diplomacy.\"
Cogent Social Sciences 3.1 (2017): 1297175.

Duncombe, Constance. \"The politics of Twitter: emotions and the power
of social media.\" International Political Sociology 13.4 (2019):
409-429.

Dittmer, Jason, and Daniel Bos. Popular culture, geopolitics, and
identity. Rowman & Littlefield, 2019.

AI concept of the week: what are the ethical considerations when we use
AI?

<https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2020/10/ethical-concerns-mount-as-ai-takes-bigger-decision-making-role/>

APPENDIX TO UNDERGRADUATE COURSE OUTLINES DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL
SCIENCE
<https://politicalscience.uwo.ca/undergraduate/docs/outlines/2025-26/APPENDIX%20TO%20UNDERGRADUATE%20COURSE%20OUTLINES1.pdf>

**Accessibility at Western: Please** contact poliscie@uwo.ca if you
require any information in plain text format, or if any other
accommodation can make the course material and/or physical space
accessible to you.

**Mental Health at Western:** If you or someone you know is experiencing
distress, there are several resources here at Western to assist you.
Please visit http://www.uwo.ca/uwocom/mentalhealth/ for more information
on these resources and on mental health.

Other relevant links:

[Requests for Relief from Academic
Decisions](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/requests_for_relief_from_academic_decisions.pdf)

[Undergraduate
Procedures](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/undergrad_requests_for_relief_procedure.pdf)

[Scholastic
Offences](https://uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/undergrad_scholastic_offence_procedure.pdf)

[Undergraduate
Procedures](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/undergrad_scholastic_offence_procedure.pdf)

[Senate Review Board
Appeals](https://uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/SRBA_appeals.pdf)

[Procedures](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/appeals/SRBA_appeals_procedure.pdf)

[Course Numbering Policy, Essay Courses, and Hours of
Instruction](https://www.uwo.ca/univsec/pdf/academic_policies/registration_progression_grad/coursenumbering_SEP.pdf)

[^1]: Policy taken from Dr Cheyney with permission.
    [https://web.archive.org/web/20210413194856/https://studentlife.oregonstate.edu/childcare/family-friendly-syllabi-examples](https://web.archive.org/web/20210413194856/https:/studentlife.oregonstate.edu/childcare/family-friendly-syllabi-examples)

[^2]: From U-M Faculty Member Alisse Portnoy, English.

Students can check if their attendance was recorded at this link http://tiny.cc/3390attend

